h1. "Resauce Framework":http://github.com/mikekelly/Resauce

Resauce is a small extension to Zend Framework. It gives you a lightweight framework for building RESTful HTTP interfaces with PHP.

h2. Introduction

The main idea is to treat each controller as a Resource; i.e. a controller is responsible for *one resource*. This is distinct from other solutions (such as the REST components included in ZF itself) where a controller is responsible for both collection and item resources.

Example Routes:

'/blog' >> BlogController

'/blog/:post' >> BlogPostController

'/blog/:post/comments' >> BlogPostCommentsController

A route in a Resauce application simply maps a URI pattern to a Resauce controller - no controller action should ever be specified in a route. Instead - controller actions are 'routed' according to the HTTP method of a given request.

i.e.

* GET >> getAction()
* PUT >> putAction()
* POST >> postAction()
* DELETE >> deleteAction()
* HEAD >> headAction()
* OPTIONS >> optionsAction()

If a request is routed to a resauce controller which does not have an action implemented for the given HTTP method, then the Resauce will automatically respond with a 405 Method Not Allowed response code.

h2. So what?

The Resauce approach provides much more flexibility over how resources can be exposed than other alternatives - you have complete control of URI patterns and each resource's HTTP methods.

REST is *not* collection/item CRUD; frameworks which fail to realise this (e.g. Zend Framework, Ruby on Rails) are introducing needless restriction - the only (debatable) 'benefit' of which is that your collection and item resources can be handled in one controller and with one route.

.. lots more ranting to be done here eventually ..  

h2. Example Usage

Configure routing for your interface by creating an _initRoutes function in your Resauce Bootstrap.

application/Bootstrap.php:
<pre><code><?php
class Bootstrap extends Resauce_Application_Bootstrap
{
	public function _initRoutes() {
		$this->addResauceRoutes(array(
			'blog' => 'blog',
			'blog/:post' => 'blog-post',
			'blog/:post/comments' => 'blog-post-comments'
		));
	}
}</code></pre>

Then create the controllers in the controller directory, with Actions for HTTP methods you want the URI to support:

e.g. application/controllers/BlogController.php
<pre><code><?php
class BlogController extends Resauce_Controller_Resource
{
	// Action for handling GET requests i.e. GET /blog
	public function getAction() {
		// fetch list of posts, add them to view, render the view
	}
	// Action for handling POST requests i.e. POST /blog
	public function postAction() {
		// create new post
	}
}</code></pre>

For the routes in the example Boostrap above - you will also need to create the other controllers:

BlogPostController.php
BlogPostCommentsController.php
